## An Analytical View of Football’s Placekicker

This repository is the code that corresponds with a reseach paper written with Kirk Goldsberry. The file with all the graphs and explanations is attached at the link below. The paper itself is a pdf in the repository.

Field goal kicking is simultaneously the most productive and most overlooked aspect of scoring in American Football. Despite the significant gravity of each kick, only two stats are officially kept for field goals: distance and outcome. Oftentimes kickers are unfairly criticized or praised for their field goal percentage. While a high field goal percentage is good, the stat strips any and all nuance from the art that is kicking field goals. For this project, I gathered contextual and in-game data that helps to quantify the difficulty and quality of kicks in the 2022 National Football League (NFL) season. Using coach input, weather data, spatial data, and more, I built models that predict the quality of a field goal attempt based on the circumstances that surround it. Testing how kickers performed against these models enabled me to grade their performance over a season and quantify their value to a team. These scores may lend an explanation to patterns around NFL kicker development and inform new ways to examine kicking as a whole. Performing these calculations now is a stepping stone to more advanced analytics later, especially in the form of biometric analysis based on motion capture.

https://samqueralt.quarto.pub/nfl-kicking-project/
